we begin with breaking news out of
Northern Gaza where Israel has
assassinated three sons and three
grandchildren of hamas's political
leader several members of is Han's
family were traveling in the camp when
their vehicle was hit the Israeli
military has confirmed it carried out
the strike and says hania's three sons
were Hamas operatives speaking to Al
jazer hania said the killings would only
Harden hamas's resolve he also said it
would not affect the group demands in
ceasefire
negotiations they believe that if they
kill or assassinate leaders all their
next of kin that we will abandon our
people that we will abandon our
resistance they are mistaken this Noble
blood that is spilled including my own
children will harden our resolve make us
more defiant more adamant to continue to
march on this road the road of struggle
and resistance until we win our freedom
and the lawful rights of the Palestinian
peoples are restored
all right we'll cross over to Gaza and
speak to our correspondent hanni Mahmud
who has the very latest for us so hanni
what more do we know about what
happened yes Daren will in addition to
the ongoing air strikes for the past
couple hours the Israeli military uh put
published a statement that claiming
responsibility of the assassination of
the three sons of Hamas political leader
along with their children those are the
grandchildren of is Hanah the political
leader of Hamas now this contrary to
what we know so far what we learned
since the attack that these uh the three
sons of Hamas leader and and their
children were in their vehicle they were
on their way to visit family members
today marks the first day ofid after
Ramadan and it's the Traditions across
the grip of getting it together some
form of social Gathering between family
members and relatives uh when the attack
happened that it struck their vehicle at
least two missiles were fired by a drone
uh and paramedics and civil defense on
the ground describe horrific scene at
the moment they were pulling out bodies
from uh the car that looked pretty much
incinerated and the bodies inside uh the
car were also incinerated the statement
published by the Israeli military joint
statement between the isra military and
the internal security
uh talk about that they were uh targeted
in the central area of the Gaza Strip
and that's compared to what we know from
the confirmed report they were targeted
in the Northern Western part of Gaza
City that's a Shad refugee camp it's
different than what uh what the Israeli
military uh talking about also the
statement Goes On by describing the
attacks happen at the time that these uh
people were or the the three people were
conducting conducting terrorist acts
contrary to what we know also so far as
they were in their vehicle visiting
family members uh on the first day uh of
theid okay hany thank you for that
update from
raah well let's find out more about what
the Israelis had to say about this and
bring in Rory Chalin who's joining us
from occupied East Jerusalem so now
there is confirmation uh Rory from
Israel tell us
more
yeah the confirmation came in the last
hour and it's come from a joint
statement by the military and shinb
which is the internal intelligence
agency and what this statement says is
that the IDF and the ISA that is shinb
eliminated three Hamas military Wing
operatives in the central Gaza Strip now
the strike was directed uh by military
and shinb intelligence and it was
carried out by Israeli aircraft it says
that the three men that were taken out
in this strike were Amir hinia a cell
commander in the Hamas military Wing
Muhammad Han a military operative in
Hamas and ham Han also a military
operative in Hamas this is all according
to uh the IDF the the Israeli military
and it says that they are the sons of is
hir the chairman of hamas's political
Bureau It also says that it's aware of
claim
that other relatives of ishia were
killed in this strike perhaps also a
minor and the Israeli military says it
has not verified that information at the
moment so that's the kind of dry
official language of the military and
the intelligence Services I'll bring you
a couple of other reactions as well from
different sides of the political
Spectrum first of all we've got y Golan
who is uh a military man former military
man the former Israeli military Deputy
Chief of staff but is critical of the
government at the moment he says that
however Justified and appropriate this
strike may be it points to a lack of
political wisdom in regards to the
timing chosen carrying out such dramatic
actions on the eve of a possible deal
for the release of the abductees
constitutes another serious layer in
their Lawless lawlessness by that he
means uh the government another response
here different very much to that one
though this is from uh of the connected
Alma Cohen who's far right he's part of
itar benav the National Security
Minister's party and he simply says is
ID Mubarak you are next in
line okay Rory thank you thank you for
that update from occupi East Jerusalem
well we can now speak to Bas Naim who's
a senior member of hamas's political
Bureau he's joining us on the phone Mr
Naim thanks for your time with us on Al
jazer so the Israelis have confirmed
that they indeed were behind uh this
assassination what do you think the
message that Israel is trying to send
out unto
whom thank you very much first of all I
have to emphasize one point before
responding to your question that uh such
actions cannot be uh taken or done uh
except by someone who is
deranged uh mentally uh it is
not these are not the actions of a
civilized state or civilized Army uh if
they think that they are negotiating
with us uh through killing our children
or our wives after failing to achieve
any of their goals by the tanks and by
the a strikes or around the table the
negotiations table they are delusional
and uh we guarant we we uh guarantee or
we emphasize that they will not achieve
any of their goals
uh by such uh horrific
crimes what what can you say about the
timing of this not only is it the first
day of Reid but also as you mentioned
the ceasefire negotiations are
ongoing first of all I have to emphasize
the information we have that these the
three young uh civilians the three young
men the sons of and three or four of his
grandchildren are killed in a car in the
uh North Western part of Gaza City in
the refugee in the beach refugee camp
while they were visiting their relatives
because of the first day
of uh second uh yes we know that
Netanyahu from the beginning he was uh
doing the maximum to block or to
undermine any chance to reach a
ceasefire agreement and uh after he has
failed along the last few weeks to uh to
uh to spoil the negotiations and he is
under pressure from the Americans and
from the International Community and
from the internal uh Israeli Society he
is now using all the other dirty tools
by killing our children our wives by uh
assassinating leaders or some people in
Damascus in Lebanon he is insisting on
undermining any chance to reach a CE
Fair agreement but from your end from
hamas's end does this affect the
negotiation process at all does it
change or does it Harden hamas's
position look it is not easy to lose uh
the son or the grandson or the
grandchildren it is not uh it is not une
easy news to hear such uh
uh news but uh at the same time our
children our wives our houses are not
more uh precious or expensive uh than
3,000 30,000 or
35,000 uh women and children and
innocent men of our people who has been
killed by the Israelis along the last
six months therefore yes it is very
painful it is um it is not easy to
accept or to hear such news but at the
same time we are insisting on uh
negotiating to achieve a ceasefire which
can end this aggression this genocid
against our people but at the same time
yes it it will be taken in consideration
such escalation what do you mean uh
taken into consideration what does that
mean because we are still studying uh
the uh reply to reply to the last
proposal received from the
mediators which is in total is not
acceptable because it doesn't respond to
any of our demands which is the
total ceas fire total withdrawal of the
forces from the Gaza Strip and the free
movement of our people who has been
displaced along the last six months and
they return back to their homes and to
launch a huge and serious uh operation
of Aid relief and
reconstruction um until now we didn't we
haven't received any serious uh answers
uh nothing in the in the last uh
proposal is talking about a seir uh
nothing is talking about to withdrawal
of the Israeli forces from the Gaza
Strip and even the return back of our
people to their
houses is under the control of the
Israeli forces on the ground Mr Naim
President Biden just um about half an
hour or so giving a press conference
said that it is up to uh Hamas Hamas
needs to move on the ceasefire proposal
so what's your response to
that I I think we have uh responded
three weeks or four weeks ago to the uh
bar to proposal and the Americans
themselves have said that it was
rational and very constructive and we
can build on this uh unfortunately what
what we have received as a response from
the Israelis again it doesn't uh it it
doesn't respond to the main demands of
the movement which is looking for a
permanent sustainable Seas fair and for
the total withdrawal of the forces we
cannot accept to sign by by our own
hands the reincubation of the Gaza Strip
and to keep two million Palestinian
displaced from their
houses and to keep our people under the
threat of relaunching again uh the
aggression after ending the temporary
pause or a temporary because what they
have presented to us now is talking only
about a
temporary ceas or a temporary POS which
means that thees have the right after
after the end of these days to relaunch
their aggression again I think no
Palestinian can accept such such a deal
okay just a final question for you and
so so where do things stand right now
with the ceasefire
negotiations uh again I I as as I said
we are now studying uh the last proposal
we will reply to this proposal in
details after consultation in the
leadership uh but again we are insisting
on our demands which is again we we are
not talking about you big demands we are
talking about expected demands of
negotiations to achieve a ceas fair when
we when we are talking about a ceas fair
it means that at the end we will reach a
ceas fair a lasting sustainable SE fair
and the withdrawal of the forces from
the ground and by the way the return of
the people they displace people who when
they uh return to their houses this is
the expected result of any such of any
negotiations therefore we they should
not consider it as a gesture from the
Israelis that they are allowing our
people to go back to their houses this
is the expected result of any such
negotiations okay uh thank you Mr Bass
Naim we thank you for joining us on Al
jaaz
pleas make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer